Enso package and distribution specifications (#744)
luna/enso: doc/distribution/specification/distribution.md

# The Enso Distribution

This document describes the behavior of the first prototype of an Enso
distribution, together with some future expansion plans.

## Installation Home Layout

*Please keep in mind that this system is just a proposal and none of it is
implemented yet.*

All of Enso's binaries, packages, etc. are installed into a directory in
the user's home directory. For macOS and linux distributions that's `~/.enso`,
by default.  

> TODO: What is it on Windows?  

Reviewer: Should use a similar format to the other docs with a `> the actionables for this section are: ...` at the end of the section.

The distribution is fully portable, so it never makes any assumptions about
actually being placed in any particular directory.

The directory structure is as follows:

```
~/.enso
├── bin

> │   └── enso                  # the universal launcher script, responsible for choosing the appropriate compiler version

Reviewer: Should have a section talking about the universal launcher script, even if it's just laying out what questions we need to answer about it (impl language, etc).

Reviewer: These questions should be laid out in a `> the actionables...` block.

├── dist                      # per-compiler-version distribution directories
│   ├── default -> enso-1.2.0 # a symlink to the version that should be used when no version is explicitely specified 
│   ├── enso-1.0.0            # a full distribution of given Enso version, described below     
│   │   └── <truncated>
│   └── enso-1.2.0            # a full distribution of given Enso version, described below
│       └── <truncated>
└── jvm                       # a directory storing (optional) distributions of the JVM used by the Enso distributions
    └── graalvm-ce-27.1.1
```

## Single Version Distribution Layout

> This section describes the structure of a single version distribution. This

Reviewer: "Single version distribution" is unclear. We need a better term for it, or just reordering the words "a distribution of a single version of enso".

system is intended to be implemented first and used e.g. for the Enso nightly
builds / releases.

> Such a distribution can be used as a standalone version, assuming the proper

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such a distribution can be used as a standalone version, assuming the required
```

version of the JVM is installed and used.

The layout of such a distribution is as follows:

```
enso-1.0.0
├── bin           # Contains all the executable tools and their dependencies.
│   └── enso.jar  # Che main executable of the distribution. CLI entry point.
├── lib           # Contains all the installed libraries for this compiler version.
│   ├── Http      # Every library directory may contain multiple versions of the same library.

> │   │   ├── 3.1.0 # Every version subdir is just an Enso package containing the library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
│   │   ├── 3.1.0 # Every version sub-directory is just an Enso package containing the library.
```

│   │   │   ├── package.yaml
│   │   │   ├── polyglot
│   │   │   └── src
│   │   │       ├── Http.enso
│   │   │       └── Socket.enso
│   │   └── 5.3.5
│   │       ├── package.yaml
│   │       ├── polyglot
│   │       └── src
│   │           ├── Http.enso
│   │           └── Socket.enso
│   └── Base
│       └── 1.0.0
│           ├── package.yaml
│           └── src
│               ├── List.enso
│               ├── Number.enso
│               └── Text.enso
└── package_sets # package sets for non-package run modes (described below)
    ├── default.yaml
    └── my_package_set.yaml
```

### Package Sets

> A package set is a manifest containing library versions that become available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A package set is a manifest containing library versions that are made available
```
